# Textual content for research paper

- [Textual content for research paper](#textual-content-for-research-paper)
  - [Details](#details)
    - [Title: Identification and Measurement of Hierarchical Layout Patterns on User Experience](#title-identification-and-measurement-of-hierarchical-layout-patterns-on-user-experience)
    - [Author: Roman Sorin](#author-roman-sorin)
    - [Email: roman@romansorin.com](#email-romanromansorincom)
    - [Affiliation: Mentor High School](#affiliation-mentor-high-school)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [References](#references)

## Details

### Title: Identification and Measurement of Hierarchical Layout Patterns on User Experience

### Author: Roman Sorin

### Email: roman@romansorin.com

### Affiliation: Mentor High School

## Introduction

User experience (UX) has continually developed in the field of software engineering and is seen as being highly integral to the success and usability of an application [5]. Alongside concepts such as accessibility and presence of I18n in interfaces, perceived user experiences—notable traits such as design, animation, and usability—are one of the most important aspects to consider in the development and analysis of interactions [10]. Seen both within and beyond software, reputable products and services are known to utilize effective user experience in creating a product that attracts and retains consumers, subsequently expanding the product influence. User experience drives both offline and online interactions that result in psychological and economic impact on consumers and businesses. User experience is a broad and highly expansive field that can take the form of layouts; colors; fonts; copy; animations; and more granular aspects of design and interaction, making it highly complex to assess and properly execute. In this study, the impact which hierarchical layout structure and design patterns have will be of focus to approach user experience in web interfaces from a bottom-up approach and architectural stance, addressing the fundamental integration of components in the presentational layer.

From one perspective, user experience is derived from the physiological interaction between user and system [11]. As interfaces and applications are developed further to suit the needs of consumers and developers alike, there exists a significant need to address the psychological implications of human-computer interaction (HCI) in a more focused and detailed pursuit. Conversely, this continual development of products and experiences creates a significant amount of both practical and technical applications for user experience to manifest itself within, providing for new theses and findings. Within the previous decades, several studies have explored the importance of user experience on this success of products and applications [9, 8, 3] in various facets. A common pattern that exists in much of the current research on user experience regards the aesthetics and appearance of a website with consideration of both higher and lower-level abstraction. When analyzing judgment and response by users, aesthetic and appearance is a large determinant in utilization and rates of recurrence [7]. In the domain of product and application development, the quality of the experience is extremely vital in progressive rates of user retention, user satisfaction, revenues from sales and advertising, and other analytical measures that are used to determine the relative success of a product or application. Of the serious need for appealing and usable interfaces are businesses that rely on online traffic for customers, and identification and use of these interfaces may provide an advantage over the competition; increasing revenue and attraction by customers to the respective site [7]. Consequently, definitive data on optimal layouts by use cases can serve as being beneficial to businesses in both financial and social capital. Moreover, synonymous with the DRY and SOLID principles used in software engineering,designers may look to these data to optimize their processes and focus on more granular parts of the system; and developers can be more oriented towards releasing minimum viable products (MVPs) with confidence and reasoning for utilizing a given layout.

Similarly, machine learning (ML) and deep learning algorithms have undergone significant developments and continue to grow in their rates of application [15]. The use of deep learning in machine learning has allowed for solving more complex artificial intelligence tasks, including object and pattern recognition [6], a concept that will be fundamental in the findings within this paper [15]. More specifically, applications of machine learning such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs) [12], pattern recognition, and image classification establish opportunities for automated image caption and description generation [14], labeling of features and objects [2], and identifying common patterns within a set of images [13]. In this context, hierarchical features describe the components found within a layout, and a layout may thus be referred to as layout hierarchy.

A major limitation of UX and its applicability is the granularity found within even the foundational layouts, ignoring any higher-level or specific abstractions. Layouts are arguably highly recursive and cascading, being made up of its components which contain a great degree of subjectivity, room for improvement, and iterative processes. These iterative processes take a significant amount of time to implement and analyze, relating to the engineering debt that occurs within design and development [4]. Considering the complexity of an interface composed of several different components (all of which are recursive and componentized themselves), the difficulty in achieving an optimal layout in terms of UX is quite evident. As such, it is likely a reason behind the lack of data and definition of layouts, despite patterns in layouts being common and each being utilized in thousands of cases. Even as UX expands as a field and significant area of focus within software engineering, research is relatively limited and restricted to case studies and internal data at best, suggesting a need for a method for identifying these data.

While the fields of software engineering and machine learning have been individually addressed and developed, there has yet to be studies that consider the integration of machine learning with the user experience facet in software engineering. Moreover, there are no definite data on how layout hierarchies affect UX metrics. The capability for pattern recognition and hierarchical analysis using machine learning is of high importance concerning layouts and user experience, as it may present possible solutions for identifying patterns within layouts using models and generating labels that may be implemented to identify these desired metrics. Consequently, two research questions are presented:

(1) How does layout hierarchy impact user experience metrics, and what metrics are associated with what hierarchical features?
(2) How can hierarchical features best be implemented to optimize the overall user experience and address a greater range of provided metrics?

In data sets which contain a large number of samples, such as a set of the highest indexed sites on the web (minimum 10,000+ indices), manual identification of both common and more intricate patterns are incredibly difficult to find and waste resources. In contrast, statistical methods and the use of trained algorithmic models will have higher rates of success in identifying patterns that may otherwise not be seen. Thus, there is a chance that integrating algorithmic models into site analysis to identify patterns may more significantly benefit the field of software engineering. Because of the aforementioned limitations of manual analysis, layouts and structures which are deemed to be efficient and successful are strictly subjective and reported on an "at-will" basis; this information may come from individual analyses or findings by user experience researchers within case studies or companies. Thus, this paper proposes an approach to find objective data through the collection of existing sites from Alexa Top Sites [1], then programmatically collect screenshots of every site, which will then be fed into a model to identify patterns in layouts. By itself, these data will be of little value to the purpose of this paper and therefore requires implementation and an experimental investigation to identify what metrics are associated in practice rather than strict ranking. Thus, this paper seeks to identify the most common layout hierarchies and patterns seen in the highest-indexing sites and measure which UX metrics can be best associated with a given layout or features.


## References

[1]"AWS Marketplace: Alexa Top Sites", Aws.amazon.com, 2020. [Online]. Available: https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B07QK2XWNV?qid=1555346599089&sr=0-1&ref_=srh_res_product_title. [Accessed: 07-Jan-2020].
[2]C. Farabet, C. Couprie, L. Najman and Y. LeCun, 'Learning Hierarchical Features for Scene Labeling', IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 35, no. 8, pp. 1915-1929, 2013. Available: 10.1109/tpami.2012.231.
[3]Dede Frederick, James Mohler, Mihaela Vorvoreanu, and Ronald Glotzbach. 2015. The effects of parallax scrolling on user experience in web design. J. Usability Studies 10, 2 (February 2015), 87-95.
[4]Ferreira, Jennifer & Noble, James & Biddle, Robert. (2007). Agile Development Iterations and UI Design. 50-58. 10.1109/AGILE.2007.8.
[5]G. Desolda, C. Ardito, M. Costabile and M. Matera, "End-user composition of interactive applications through actionable UI components", Journal of Visual Languages & Computing, vol. 42, pp. 46-59, 2017. Available: 10.1016/j.jvlc.2017.08.004.
[6]He, Kaiming & Zhang, Xiangyu & Ren, Shaoqing & Sun, Jian. (2016). Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition. 770-778. 10.1109/CVPR.2016.90.
[7]Hongzhi Li [1], Joseph G. Ellis [2], Lei Zhang [1] and Shih-Fu Chang [2].2018. PatternNet: Visual Pattern Mining with Deep Neural Network. InICMR ’18: 2018 International Conference on Multimedia Retrieval, June 11–14,2018, Yokohama, Japan.ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. 10.1145/3206025.3206039.
[8]Jevremovic, Aleksandar & Adamović, Saša & Veinović, Mladen. (2014). Mousetracking Visitors to Evaluate Efficacy of Web Site Design. Serbian Journal of Electrical Engineering. 00. 23-23. 10.2298/SJEE131223023J.
[9]Porat, Talya & Tractinsky, Noam. (2012). It's a Pleasure Buying Here: The Effects of Web-Store Design on Consumers' Emotions and Attitudes. Human-Computer Interaction. 27. 235-276. 10.1080/07370024.2011.646927.
[10]R. Veral and J. Macías, "Supporting user-perceived usability benchmarking through a developed quantitative metric", International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, vol. 122, pp. 184-195, 2019. Available: 10.1016/j.ijhcs.2018.09.012.
[11]S. Fairclough, "Fundamentals of physiological computing", Interacting with Computers, vol. 21, no. 1-2, pp. 133-145, 2009. Available: 10.1016/j.intcom.2008.10.011.
[12]Sermanet, Pierre & Eigen, David & Zhang, Xiang & Mathieu, Michael & Fergus, Rob & Lecun, Yann. (2013). OverFeat: Integrated Recognition, Localization and Detection using Convolutional Networks. International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) (Banff).
[13]Supavich (Fone) Pengnate, Rathindra Sarathy & JinKyu Lee (2018): The Engagement of Website Initial Aesthetic Impressions: An Experimental Investigation, International Journal of Human–Computer Interaction, DOI: 10.1080/10447318.2018.1554319
[14]Vinyals, O., Toshev, A., Bengio, S., & Erhan, D. (2015). Show and tell: A neural image caption generator. 2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). doi:10.1109/cvpr.2015.7298935
[15]Wang, Haohan & Raj, Bhiksha. (2017). On the Origin of Deep Learning.

Style: IEEE
Word Count: 1204